---
layout: post
date: 2018-06-16
categories: conference
title: NDC Oslo 2018
---

NDC Oslo is the biggest independent developers conference in the world, this year I was lucky enough to attend. With 183 speakers giving 194 talks over three days. They run up to 9 talks at the same time so you can only attend so many.

# Day 1 #

## Keynote ##

### Mads Torgenson ###

This years keynote was given by Mads Torgenson who is the Project lead on the C# language. Since it was 50 years since a Norwegian invented Object-Orientated programming with Simula 67 (released in 68), he took us on a tour of Simula, what inspired it and what was inspired by Simula. He showed how a lot of the features that we now take for granted have been around for a long time, and looked to the future where he believes that Object-Orientated programing and Functional programming will need to converge.

## C# 8.0 ##

### Jon Skeet & Mads Torgenson ###

Mads then joined Jon Skeet to demonstrate three features that are coming in C# 8: Null dereferencing, Improved pattern matching and Ranges. The null dereferencing looks really interesting as it opens up opportunities for the compiler to catch bugs where you may be referencing a null object, and giving you options to make sure you handle that case, instead of crashing at runtime. Improved pattern matching and ranges gives better syntactic sugar to make your code more concise.

## Tabs, spaces and salaries: a data science detective story ##

### Evelina Gabasova ###

The media likes correlations, which is why they run stories like "Chocolate makes you slim". One of these stories was that if you spaces for indentation, you get paid more. Evelina seen this story and decided to investigate why this result was found. She demonstrated the way she investigated the data, and showed techniques to visualize the information and identify issues with the data.

## A practical introduction to Data Science ##

### Mark West ###

Data science is at the intersection of Computer science, Mathematics and Domain knowledge. Mark showed you don't need to be proficient in all three to get started, and showed the basic algorithms that you can start with.

## So, you want to create your own .NET runtime? ##

### Chris Bacon ###

Chris live coded a basic .NET runtime that could load and run a compiled dll, the dll had only one empty method. He showed the resources needed to parse the file and get to the compiled code.

## Reinventing MVC pattern for web programming with F# ##

### Krysztof Ceislak ###

By first showing how existing F# web frameworks are too low level to create large maintainable web sites, Krysztof demonstrated how the Saturn framework makes it easier to build systems by implementing the MVC pattern.

## Build your own Excel 365 in an hour with F# ##

### Thomas Petricek ###

Thomas showed how to quickly model and prototype a system in F#. By building the system up feature by feature he was able to create a spreadsheet like web page, that could be edited and run formulas in cells just like excel. All within 130 line of code and in just 1 hour.

# Day 2 #

## From SQL to Azure Cosmos Db ##

### Jimmy Bogard ###

CosmosDb is a multi-paradigm database, meaning it can be a document database, key value store, relational, and more. But you need to specify at setup which type you want to use, and each database can only be one type. Jimmy showed how using a relational database in cosmosDb differs to normal Sql Server. He also noted how consistency guarantees differ between the two, and presented Domain events as a way to ensure consistency.

## Dependency injection revisited ##

### Mark Seemann ###

Purely functional languages cannot use dependency injection, but have a special way of providing the same functionality. Mark has been asked several times if this way could be used in C# and he has said that you shouldn't, in this talk he demonstrated why. To do dependency injection in a functional language you need to use a Free Monad to create a Monad using a Functor, a phrase that is not easily understandable. To do this in C# requires the use of a lot of generics, tuples and funcs, which makes the code look awful and very hard to understand. Functional languages have build in features that make it understandable.

## Domain-Driven Design hidden gems from the big blue book ##

### Nick Tune ###

The big blue book of Domain driven design is over 15 years old now and the world of software development has changed, but the book still remains relevant. Nick detailed several lessons that can still be learned by giving examples from his career, where re-reading the book helped him overcome problems in designing and creating systems.

## "Hello Multiverse" - Quantum computing and you ##

### John Azariah ###

Quantum computing is the next big thing, but is very hard to understand because it deviates from normal computing in such a fundamental way, instead of bits it uses qbits.

## Adapting ASP.NET Core MVC to your needs ##

### Filip W ###

The new ASP.NET Core framework is very adaptable and there are many ways that you can change conventions and plug into the framework. Such as running two MVC systems in the same overall system and the ability to dynamically add and remove controllers during runtime.

## The Erlang Ecosystem ##

### Robert Virding ###

Robert was part of the team that created Erlang in the late 80's and early 90's. He went through the design decisions of the language and platform as well as how the platform has now evolved and grown to include multiple languages.

## Patterns for building zero support distributed systems in erlang ##

### Rob Ashton ###

The best way to support a system, is to create a system that you don't need to support. Rob shared the philosophy that his company works to so that the customer never needs to contact them to fix their system.

- Write basic code to throw away, new code should be quickly written and not needed to be good.
- Reuse everything, old code should be higher quality and heavily tested.
- Don't use third party code, adds extra complexity.
- Except when you need to, somethings are too complex to do yourselves.
- Own all the code, if there is a bug in the third party code, fix it.
- Give users the ability to fix any issue themselves, even if it is shuting the system down and restarting.

# Day 3 #

## Four languages from forty years ago ##

### Scot Wlaschin ###

The 1970's are where all the language paradigms were created, before being solidified in the 80's. Scott went through four different languages, SQL, PROLOG, ML and SMALLTALK, and showed what they brought to the table. Each language solves different problems and in different ways. You shouldn't always use just one language to solve all problems, but use the best tool for the job.

## Elm: A functional love story ##

### Tale Prestmo ###

Tale went through how she learned the Elm language, which made her fall in love with functional programming.

## F# and Fable: re-think web development ##

### Maxime Mangel ###

You no longer have to write javascript to create web frontend's, you can use F# with Fable to compile your code into a react app. This gives you the benefits of the F# type system and the debuggability of the react/redux ecosystem.

## What and where? - Machine learning for geospatial analysis ##

### Mathilde Orstavik ###

Mathilde explained how she works to automatically detect buildings from aerial photos. What steps are required to process the image in order to automatically classify what is a building and what is not.

## Keyboards? Where we are going we don't need keyboards ##

### Don Wibier ###

Don went over the Azure cognitive api's for images, text and speech showing how they can be linked together to offer different ways to interact with a program.

## Everything is cyber-broken ##

### Troy Hunt & Scott Helme ###

To round off the conference Troy and Scott gave a lighthearted look at all the ways security on the web is failing. With a look at those they have clashed with over giving bad security advice.